Fanlinc is different by trying to unify the fans, vendors/artists and cosplayers in forum style and group message style discussions with fandoms (ie. targeted groups) that relate to common topics of interests. It includes features from existing applications into one application such as posts, chats, events and a map system. It also leverages its unique fandom level system which allows users to categorize how invested they are in a specific fandom. This fandom level is used to tailor the user's content. A "limited" user may see more higher level content for a fandom whereas an "expert" level user may see all the fan-theories and all the low level details they want. Since Fanlinc is designed for fans, it is designed with three types of users in mind, the fan, the vendor/artist and the cosplayer. Existing social media platforms primarily think of the fan because they are the largest demographic. Vendors and cosplayers are a fraction of the general demographic. Fanlinc will be designed around these three types of users.

Fanlinc plans to solve three key problems, scattered platforms, generality of existing social media platforms and the local disconnectedness that fans face. These are problems which no mainstream social media platform as addressed all three of these problems.

Firstly, platforms are scattered for fans, many go to site A and B for discussions, site C for events, site D to see related artists and the point is, there is no one-site solution. A real life example of this is the subreddit, [r/shield](https://www.reddit.com/r/shield/) which is a subreddit about the TV show, Marvel's Agents of Shield. Discussions among fans happens on Twitter, [r/shield](https://www.reddit.com/r/shield/) and some discussions on [r/marvel](https://www.reddit.com/r/marvel/) among many other discussion platforms.

Secondly, Fanlinc plans to solve generality through its unique fandom level system which will tailor a user's content based on their interest in the fandom. Most fans are not interested in what the actors/actresses are doing except for the "Expert Level" fans which want to know anything and everything about a fandom. [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/) is considered more for the die-hard and our expert level fans. It does not specifically cater to the limited level fans who have less investment in a fandom.

Thirdly, Fanlinc can connect users to geographic posts and events close to the user. An existing service, [Eventbrite](https://www.eventbrite.ca/) is used for events but it is purely designed for tickets for events. People generally do not go out of their way to see fandom specific events on Eventbrite, instead they learn about it on discussion platforms related to their fandoms (ie. reddit).

Fanlinc has similar elements of existing web applications such as reddit's subreddits (such as [r/uoft](https://www.reddit.com/r/uoft), a community all about UofT) which has the small communities which is similar to Fanlinc’s fandoms which host online discussions in a forum style.  

Fanlinc differs from reddit in that it allows you to setup events for specific fandom levels without alienating too much of the community. Designed for the casual, die-hard fans and everything in between with easy organization between them. Although reddit has its own event functionality, it is very basic and only displays date, time, and location about the event. Fanlinc however, will allow users to RSVP to events, associating an user's profile to an event. This allows a user to gather all of their events into one specialized location, a feature that reddit does not have.

Fanlinc differs from Facebook as Facebook is more individualized where Fanlinc is community driven with respect to the fandom. Although Facebook has groups with event functionality, Facebook also puts large focus on the individual. A Facebook user may post on their own personal board and share their thoughts/posts irrespective of a specific fandom. A similar type of functionality would distract from the community centred fandoms that Fanlinc focuses on. Alongside corporate and celebrity pages, many elements of social media are looking for the user's attention on Facebook while Fanlinc is tailored to fandom experience and expertise. Furthermore, Facebook groups also lack in the filtering of types of fans and level of fandom. If an expert level fan were to visit a Facebook fan page, they'd be forced to view all posts and events from all levels of fandom, which they may not be interested in. Likewise for a limited level fan.

Fanlinc differs from Discord because Discord lacks in a central posting feature. Discord is focused on group chatting and discussions. As such, although discussions can be had on specific topics, users will have difficulty keeping track of discussions about several topics at once since dedicated channels are required for such interaction. Furthermore, there is no time-neutral way to view content on Discord as the most recent messages take up most of the user's attention. It is very difficult for a user to older, popular discussions on Discord whereas Fanlinc allows users to view posts based on popularity, time, and several other filters.
